This week was a very good week for Bell Labs, and credit must go to many of you for that. First, we had the FutureX Days (formerly known as Open Days) event in Villarceaux, which was scheduled to coincide with the launch of the Innovation City (or “Cité de l’innovation” for those so linguistically inclined). The latter event marked the re-launch of the Villarceaux campus as it has been turned into a much more attractive, dynamic and pleasing location, full of outdoor seating areas, a fountain, pleasant walkways and some cool graphics in and on the buildings. During this event we announced partnerships with JC Decaux for deployment of our small cells on their street furniture, and with Accenture for mobile device management for Enterprises, with an extension to deployment of Enterprise indoor small cells being considered as well. But, most notably for Bell Labs, the main conference room/building on the campus was renamed and dedicated to our own Dennis Ritchie, with the Ritchie family on hand to commemorate the event with their usual humor and humility. The fact that the first ‘place’ to be dedicated to Dennis Ritchie was in Villarceaux, and the importance we therefore attribute to that location, was not lost on the employees and press who attended the event. Jean-Luc Beylat and his team were instrumental in helping drive the creation of Innovation City, and managing the launch event, as well as the building naming, and should really be congratulated for how it all turned out. But the congrats should not stop there as the same team, together with help and support from the Bell Labs researchers and our amazing Comms team of Wendy Zajack and Fiona Carpenter, also owned and managed the FutureX Days that convinced everyone that Bell Labs was not only alive and well, but ‘kicking’ too, as evidenced by the outstanding research showcased, the innovative mindset of the researchers spending time in Le Garage (building and flying drones, and building their own 3D printer from scratch), and the great set of female researchers we have, showcased and championed by StrongHer. Well done all!

But, amazingly, that’s not all in terms of the goings-on in Villarceaux; we also hosted one of the two Bell Labs Prize Innovathons (yes, apologies for the terrible name – my fault), with 6 European applicants meeting with their Bell Labs Research Partners (BLRPs) for the first time and spending 2 days experiencing Bell Labs from the inside (touring FutureX Days, meeting with researchers, etc.). This event was coordinated expertly by Seema Nikoonezhad and the Bell Labs Ops team (John Ciacciarelli and co) and Charlie Bahr (TRIPS team), with expert assistance from “Zajack and Carpenter” again. We then transitioned to Murray Hill where the remaining 16 applicants participated in a similar event later in the week, again to great acclaim. The reaction can best be summarized by the following message from a BLRP: “I was very impressed with the organization of the event, planning, the balance of one-on-one, speeches, demos, and social events. It really felt like a productive and classy meeting. I felt that BL leadership cared about participants, the BL name and its future. [Many of the] candidates with whom I discussed this were equally or more impressed. I honestly was very impressed. I was proud to be associated with the event.” I think that says it all.

So, let’s take 24 hours to pat ourselves on the back and rest on our laurels….and then get right back to innovating and inventing the future. I am off to Madrid to lead an Excom strategy session on Innovation (using my combined CTO + Bell Labs hats) and then to Tokyo to help open the Customer Network Center (a demo/showcase center we have built) together with Michel. Talk to you when I get back.
