because alien plantoids inhabit it.easy to fix.lol?.hey man.just laughing at greebo, he's launching planetary strikes at plantoidal aliens.be grateful they're not using gas marks, or rankines, or whatever.they're big strikes ;P .aircraft carrier sized metal cored penetrators accelerated to 0.5% C.Is exploration really bugged right now, with no level 3 scans being possible?......oh, it's just a debacle!.2 and 3 are reverated. <cunor> show gratis (solo hooy) - link removed.OPs, ban the spammer?.none ever seem to be awake during this shift.Loetmichel, lysander, BrettCC, Bodshal.think most are european .well it's middle of day in europe.so will be at work unless they have a bank holiday .like us brits do.bank holiday? what's that?.public holiday.originally designed to let the poor clerks and working bods take a break.2 and 3 are reverated?.What does that mean? o_O.i think he meant over*.err. yes. reverted.reversed.Okay yeah please kick cunor.strike that.reverse it.He's spamming unsolicited links at us..well that's a nice holiday i guess. but does it apply to bank workers only?.BrettC Loetmichel2 lysander or someone.you'll take your spam, and you'll like it.NO! SPAM IS GROSS!.Besides i've got a pie..An 8-hour slow cooked lamb and rosemary pie..mm .that sounds quite nice.nope, everyone that doesnt have to work.;P .oh wow, I did not realize you could hover over a system in the map and see how many star types it had.pants. got navel progress mission, went and killed pirates but got scanned with illegal cargo. completing mission told me i got a field promotion, but not promoted. .now i'm getting navel progress missions to kkill pirates in systems with RES. too paaaainful.Hello.Elitist..{WR}-Buur-Away Bodshal BrettC Loetmichel2 lysander, someone ban that fucker cunor..aww yiss chief petty officer..thanks for that forum link about ranking up reply. probably.CPO? .we have a goldenrod here?.Apocryphic - what for ? I haven't been paying attention.ah, charming.I've just scanned .Yeah, he's been spamming all night..eh i only got hit by him once.joined almost 7 hours ago.everybody ready for 1.3 tomorrow?  .not a beta user.aww .so iam ready for it when its out of beta .it's the best way lupine.betas suck the fun out of games.sure......

