just laughing at greebo, he's launching planetary strikes at plantoidal aliens.be grateful they're not using gas marks, or rankines, or whatever.they're big strikes ;P .aircraft carrier sized metal cored penetrators accelerated to 0.5% C.Is exploration really bugged right now, with no level 3 scans being possible?.oh, it's just a debacle!.2 and 3 are reverated. <cunor> show gratis (solo hooy) - link removed.OPs, ban the spammer?.none ever seem to be awake during this shift.Loetmichel, lysander, BrettCC, Bodshal.think most are european .well it's middle of day in europe.so will be at work unless they have a bank holiday .like us brits do.bank holiday? what's that?.public holiday.originally designed to let the poor clerks and working bods take a break.2 and 3 are reverated?.What does that mean? o_O.i think he meant over*.err. yes. reverted.reversed.Okay yeah please kick cunor.strike that.reverse it.He's spamming unsolicited links at us..well that's a nice holiday i guess. but does it apply to bank workers only?.BrettC Loetmichel2 lysander or someone.you'll take your spam, and you'll like it.NO! SPAM IS GROSS!.Besides i've got a pie..An 8-hour slow cooked lamb and rosemary pie..mm .that sounds quite nice.nope, everyone that doesnt have to work.;P .oh wow, I did not realize you could hover over a system in the map and see how many star types it had.pants. got navel progress mission, went and killed pirates but got scanned with illegal cargo. completing mission told me i got a field promotion, but not promoted. .now i'm getting navel progress missions to kkill pirates in systems with RES. too paaaainful.Hello.Elitist..{WR}-Buur-Away Bodshal BrettC Loetmichel2 lysander, someone ban that fucker cunor..aww yiss chief petty officer..thanks for that forum link about ranking up .CPO? .we have a goldenrod here?.Apocryphic - what for ? I haven't been paying attention.ah, charming.I've just scanned :-).Yeah, he's been spamming all night..eh i only got hit by him once.joined almost 7 hours ago.everybody ready for 1.3 tomorrow?  :D.not a beta user.aww :(.so iam ready for it when its out of beta :).it's the best way lupine.betas suck the fun out of games.sure.http://www.reddit.com/r/eliteexplorers/comments/36bxct/exploration_scan_levels_may_be_more_broken_than/ - thats the broken exploring post I was looking at earlier.seems like it was escalated with the QA team as it's a different problem than the one originally found?.that wouldn't even surprise me Primal."If this information and speculation prove accurate, then <b>every single detailed scan made between the Wings update and now has been worthless.</b>".it's always best to assume the wrost.cool, FD can give me a fully exploration kitted out anaconda for free.and I'll call it quits.;P .and i've been exploring out there for last month.THE SKY IS FALLING! Wait this is space, there is no sky /confused/.falling skies? .oh shit, you got me.falling skies indeed.AH MAH GAWD! Someone call the 2nd massachuetts brigade the aliens are coming! .lol!!!!!!.i hated that show.got 3-4 episodes in before I quit.I liked it mostly.ah, so a K7 IAB is a massive star.I had mixed feeligns about it during season 1.K ornge giant , neve rknew that.then saw two eps of season 2 and I said fuck it this isn't worht my time.Thats how I started out with Continuum but I finally got vested enough in it to watch it all lol.thought the weapon mix was wierd.I'd have expected to see far more ARs, bolties and M1s .less sig 552s.Explorers should have probes tbh.oh, ok then. as long as you're being honest about it.how are you suspose to discover giants if they come under the same classification as their star class? .What do you mean?.You can tell by the luminosity class..right but you cant filter out specifically for giants.so .. unless you fancy checking every smegging star in the vicinity.That's okay, most don't exist..what varieties do .. will have to check.O has none..A and B I,II are A supergiant, no giants..I'd assume proto  stars cant have giants.since giants are end main sequence stage conditions.F and G I are F 
supergiant, no giants..K I and I assume M I are red supergiant..I'm just glad there are no ultragiants.That could get hairy.I want'em.plus rogues.K II,III are orange giant..we need rogue NSs tearing through systmes like random .. ;p .M III is red giant..Rogue Star coming in portside, collission guaranteed.I'm missing a few classes, but stars like M I are ONLY in imported stars.., yes but the point is  .unless you want to check every type that could have a giant, there's no way to find 'em .ie you cant filter specifically for giants or hypergiants.Well, a third of the potential classes you'll never find anyway..Except at imported stars..and I'd imagine that it should be relatively easy assuming that you can get a spectral analysis doo da to find out if something is a giant/hyper giant.i like doo da's.they go well with thingies.a dooo dooo a daaa daa daaa .. .sure thats been a song .greebo_Brat, well, not exactly true..scan started at 80ish /maybe earth world/.greebo_Brat, they are bigger and brighter on the galaxy map, and have a larger render distance..nope :9.fuzzy stars then, Apocryphic ?.Fuzzy could be anything, depending on the area..If you mean the dots visible from max zoom out..whats a fuzzy star?.star thats got a fuzzy glow around it.i see.There are a large number of stars (depending on stellar density) that you can see even zoomed out all the way on the galaxy map..hey hey a terraformable water world.my first terraform.They are usually more rare classes, but not always..More likely to find interesting stars at certain autogenerated names, like AA-A..Not always, though..woo bunch of RESes around a ringed brown dwarf.gz , Primal .Hmm, I think my record in a system was 3 Ae/Be and an O..so, have found .... DCO DVO DAO DBO DAVO DAZO DABO DCVO .. and a wolf rayet.DAZ?.nope, only a DAZO.oh ffs. the RESes are within the omgdeath yellow linje around the star.I've only seen 7 autogenerate, DA0, DB0, DC0, DAB0, DAV0, DBV0, DCV0..D and a few other imports in the local sphere..well DAZOs exist.Interesting..I'll have to keep an eye out..Pretty sure I've seen all of the carbon star classes, and probably wolf-rayets as well..carbon stars are my main goal for this trip.oh, and some of the orange AEBOs I saw on my fatal trip.They're pretty common in some areas..But you can only filter protostars in general, so lots of tts..I know.found a few silver AE/BOs .but, not come across any of the other ocloured ones yet and come back alive with the tail.i have no idea how star classifications work :P.Heh..landed in a pocket of already explored space :(.time to reset routes.It's fairly straightforward..There are two parts. The first is a spectral class which indicates the effective temperature. The scoopable stars range from O0 down through B, A, F, G, K, to M9..KGB FOAM!.put them in order or gtfo :(.The second part is a luminosity class, indicated by a roman numeral.  Normal stars are dwarves (V), but the in-game range is from I (not always supergiants) to VI (no subdwarves)..this arjinfury guy made sure to first explore all the /nice/ ones but skipped all the metallics.The star descriptions are from a relatively small set and are identical across several types or even classes..Like how A and B supergiants both say A supergiant, and F and G supergiants both say F supergiant..classification is so hard.I was kinda hoping for more variety. :P.alright they all love me. time for a nap. http://i.imgur.com/nh4VFFz.png.Also, there's no SC class stars, but the MS star description fits that class instead of MS. :P.probably - You put them in order! KGB FOAM is easy to remember..here, in order; oh bother another friendly ganker killed me.OBAFGKM is easy to remember. :P.I dunno, that doesn't look like anything man..The colors are off, too..Stars like the sun are more white than yellow/orange when you aren't looking through an oxynitrogen atmosphere. :).interdicted by a python :O  .. rail guns ftw.But hey, even aliens get that wrong, just ask superman or his parents..anyone on a mac done head tracking yet ?.ikm interested in that trac ir or something 
similas well.TrackIR is awesome.kinda pricey.tracknoir has worked ok for me so far.for a gambit.especially since it's free.and i'll look odd wearing the reflector on the soviet afghan era cap.I use a homemade alternative too, but it works equally well.EDTracker works fine also.yeah it's the reflector that'll put you over the line.does it use the native webcm ? .or do you needto make a thing ?.I just stick my face in front of a webcam and fiddled with the settings a bit.osx ?.dunni, I use it on ewin7.-typos.looking for an OSX capable one.Hey all.hi.I use Kinect and a selfmade IR reflector thingy on my head.that sounds super ghetto.Anyone know how you progress with faction missions when the only mission ever available is the system permit invite mission?.like sticking a sticker on your face.Swift  it looks like that, but the IR camera in Kinect is superb.:D.http://puu.sh/hZZna/ee848d939b.jpg lol what in the hell is this.those planets look like stars.I think they are stars.Yeah, TTS stars..what is a TTS?.T Tauri star..This is the first system Ive seen like that, pretty damn cool.They can also be yellow and look like a normal star..read one's description.to find out more.yea its way out there.this whole chain is crazy.I know what ahppened, when I got 50% dam from leaving a white dwarf system.I jumped way to close to the WD.yeah, have to be careful around collapsed stars.esp. when the lines disappear :/.I hate it when that line disappears.aye, and if you know you're jumping into an NS primary system.throttle down before you get there.I've started throttling right back as soon as I jump due to Neutron Stars.I didnt know I was jumping through and nearly got too close.Or what greebo_Brat said :p.and dont log out after jumping into a WD/NS system.when you log in you'll be in normal, and jumping to SC will generate a lot ofheat.move off someways before loggin gout.wow.super super fucking tiny tts's.?.they're more sensitive ;).super super procreating tiny stars are normally neutron stars.I just glanced into the channel and had to double-take at "tts's" .lol.theyre the size of like a small planet.Oh Tau Tauri?.yea.ah ok its the size of a large planet..0666 radius.The devil star.haha i didnt even think of that.funny.so, it doesnt exist?.or , is an apple CEO? .ugh its so annoying when half the celestials are on one side of teh warp in star and the otehr half are on the otehr side.NSs you dont expect = eeevvvull.good morning, CMDRs.Afternoon :p.lo pfhoenix.So I've kind of micked up an icon for an Earth-like for my Captain's Log application. You'd click that to note that you found an earth-like in the currently high-lighted system in the jump table : http://i.imgur.com/tIrI3vR.jpg.micked? mocked.interesting.The idea being that a smaller version of that icon would show up in the "Bodies" column in the Jump Table.Either that, or I'll find a way of having a generic "add" icon like the "+" in the Stars box and have the different planet types drop down in a list..Trying to figure out a fast, easy, and effective way of adding found star & body types to the database.fair enough design idea, might have to be careful thoug it doesnt end up looking a bit cluttered.Yep.GUI design is difficult but somehow enjoyable.is there any functional difference between SCBs?.the stats don't look like they change (aside from mass) between the different sizes and ratings.Pfhoenix - Yes, the speed at which they recharge your shield changes I believe and I THIIIIIINK how much it charges per battery?.131k for anaconda.  my highest bounty yet :D.never seen anything higher than 280k for an anaconda.how do i make my weapons more stable ?.gimballed ones.to stop them waving around so much.You can't..If they're waving around a little bit, that's just what they do.If they're waving around a lot, the enemy is using Chaff to interfere with the gimbal targetting.DESELECT target and aim manually.until they stop jamming.In that case, do as greebo says.and lower heat signature = more waving around.Getting closer also does make them track better..that is why they have a harder 
time hitting sidewinders than anacondas.other than size ofcourse.Is it possible to tell how many scans you've done before you turn them i?.GenarHofoen - What kind of details do you need to know about the star?.Just type?.Or is there more?.why do they keep getting infront of my bea,s argh.nother warrant on me.gotta get out, go to next system, pay it, undock every kill lol.why next sysyem ?.current system blows me up.*system ?.warrant.hah, nice.mine doesn't.i have a warrant on e :(.i just go to the nearest buckyball and dock.or silent run in :.why do buckyballs help.cos that's the only station near me :P.8k made from assassinations - but 0 assassinations.wut ?.you have been too sneaky.http://puu.sh/i03vQ/18899feca8.jpg so much blue lol.GenarHofoen !!.WHERE ARE YA?!.Oh bah..38 minutes idle..I was playing about with ideas for his Captain's Log program thingie..http://puu.sh/i03GI/3c40a2db27.png.Would -that- be quick and easy for people to add stars with? :).Athan: you were just being very naughty, terrorising some poor miners in 53 Chi Ceti... i'm afraid i had to correct that ;).soooo what's new?.Bank holiday over UK heh?.It's allso a bank holiday in Us isn't it?.It's Memorial day.and Whit Monday in Germany.I think only Frontier are working today.sooo West practically slacking today, while Eastern Europe...hey we have summer here finally, so things aren't so bad.Zhadnost, yeah :).it's something about....one release....1.3 wasn't it?.yeah, they have beta tomorrow.one release to rule them all?......OMG IT'S FREAKING 1.3 BETA TOMORROW.naah.mine will be when they roll out passenger transportation.and NPC dialogs.then core ED mostly will be complete for me.I expect lot of small surprises tomorrow though.lot of things they haven't mentioned.surprise one ... beta will; be delayed.;) .naah.they really should have released it friday.it seems delay also allowed them to include all ramming designs into 1.3.bank holiday perfect time for testing .hehe.well, yeah.for FD own internal testing ;).wtf.13k ly and come across a discovered system.I'm not even heading towards trhe core or any nebulas either.looooots of people playing explorers for some reason.like a certain cmdr prawnstar.(I suspect because they think it's fun...as they don't find kicks in trading and pew pew).it's more interesting than trading (what isnt) .i'm "exploring" for the first time. just went and checked out a nearby black hole..but that is like 300ly :).12.9k ly from sol.i like trading and am enjoying exploring also.but i'd definitely add a few QOL changes to explorers for real.don't know, I think trading is very fun for short bursts.exploring locks you in a bit .watching paint dry is exciting for short bursts.especially if you far away.like 30 seconds.Im heading out to as far out on an outer ring as I can get.greebo_Brat, if you use droids do the painting for you yeah.then ill plan a different route home.Okay so in E:D, what are Non Sequence stars?.so 2 weeks ill be out?.Hallo! Yes, something like that perhaps .I said watching it dry, not putting it on ;) .Are those potential black holes?.GenarHofoen - Yaay! :D.yes.and neutron stars.What else do you need put in?.yes, those are neutron stars and black holes.Just type?.Aaah kewl. :D.Michael hinted some improved black hole effects, but that might be just lensing...or might be more.Although I'd separate the Non main sequence types into BH, NS, WD .Well.. at the part of space I'm looking at... there are a LOT of them..What's WD?.white dwarf.White Dwarf.Oh; well WD's already in there..On the right-hand side. I just copied the order form the in-game filters..heyo.white dwarfs are made by collecting billions upon billions upon billions of western digital drives and compressing them down into a teeny teeny compact size.lol.oddly enough scientists have noted that this doesnt seem to adversely affect the reliability and ability to use the hard drives.since WD are shite and rarely work anyway.;P.greebo_Brat - Eh; I beg to differ..And they have the best warranty of the lot too..man, this bounty hunting CG is inconvenient.So far 
as I've found; all hard drive manufacturers go through the same bad batch bouts..conveniant name ;P .WD = White Dwarf = Western Digital.GenarHofoen - What other info is needed for stars?.When I get a result of 30-40 signatures I get excited... but then I have a sudden pang and realize that 1/4 are going to be belts and 2/3 are going to be icey rocks/planets.Well, quantity of each I'd imagine .ice moon....yaaaay.GenarHofoen - Well you'd just click per star..I;ve got 2m stored up + a 95krebuy eagle from tagging condas in res... kinda bored of that not sure what to do tho..Three G-Types? Click the G icon three times..kolie : upgrade from your eagle to a viper.and enjoy the pew pews.A G, Two L's and a WR? Click G, L, L and WR. Seems like the fastest way to add them to me..I'd imagine clicking on the other side to remove them as well - actually there's an idea .how much are vipers/.Yes, I think I'll go down that route .Right; as you click them down the bottom, it adds them to the list at the top. Click them at the top to remove them..oooh, what I was flying, and what rank if you remember ? .Just make sure deletion has a confirmation..What I need are decent icons  .not that I can even recall what CMDR Athanasius' rank is currently.GenarHofoen, would right clicking be more intuitive to remove an entry?.So you don't accidently nuke stars out of an old record :P.Might be. .I'm going out for a walk - bbiab.Later!.so.this Mobius thing.I searched for groups called mobius.can a type 6 outearn a res in haul vs kill time?.Theres a few....I am guessing its the one thats just 'Mobius'.So I requested to join..MidiPrefix  it is the one that is only Mobius, no other characters.or ill go vipre.anyone know if I need to ask someone on a forum or something?.no, just send request.or do tghey just let people in, then ban if they do silly things?.ok thanks.kolie.It might take a while because the admin has to manually accept you, but he's online pretty often.T6 might be able to get more creds per hour I guess, nbot really sure.but really, I would just say do what you find fun man.well i dont know what I can do :).sure jarnoid, I'm in no real rush.just wantged to check it out.kolie.you can shoot stuff.i just been earning credits in res all day. got a bunch of credits not sure where to go.do bulletin board missions.trade things.mine stuff.explore the galaxy.fight in wars.are ammoinia worlds worth scanning?.try and change systems ownerships and such.theblackavenger, yes, they are one of the most valuable finds.ah, found one with life.guess i will go the 11k and see if there are two in this system.looks like it might be.my favorite job in the game is optimizing my ship :) .all the fighting i've done is either wayy to easy, or it goes the other way and i get 100 lasers to the face for an insta boom.soooo, that was hairiy.kolie - Welcome to the challenge of Game Balance. :).one goal of mine was to not be scared of an strong signal source..Finding that sweet spot is an incredibly difficult thing to do..4 million in empire bounty and then a nervous trigger finger... had to dock at akoi dock to clean my name ;-).i think i will cahs them in for the CG now... eventually such a mishap will go awry ;).as soon as i was able to do that i can't find good ones anymore.Essentially what a developer is challenged to do, is put the player into what is called the 'flow' state. Sufficiently challenged but not too easy so that the person feels accomplished and focused in the act of completing the challenge..Too hard, they get frustrated. Too easy, they get bored..I've been in the game industry :) I get it..Sweet! :D.18:07:30 <Psieonic> Finding that sweet spot is an incredibly difficult thing to do. <--- especially as it will vary from player to player.Athan - Yup.Which is why knowing your target audience is so damn important..hmmm, aren't there some games already that vary difficulty depending on how well you're doing ?.yeah..I seem to recall hearing about one game that will keep on dumbing things down if you're just not getting it.Especially the big mainstream ones. 
Mario Kart for example..hard to do that when you could be in a wing of varying skill levels .I know the game has more depth than I am aware of as well, and I could find that thing, but coming in it is very opaque as to what is in the game, what is possible, and what I have the current skill/ship/credits to attempt to do..these missions for 10k credits aint my thing..But its all I see..well, for E:D, if per wing, you'd vary it depending on how easily, or not they seemed to take out NPCs, and of course on if any in the wing died, and how quickly .kolie - Yeah; E:D definitely suffers from communication issues..i'm presuming nothing is worth flying 400kls? .it's not going to be *easy* but there are some metrics you could use to guide any changes.i'd rather have there be places that have varying degrees of difficulty.the SSS is pretty unique i think in games.SSS are funny.rarely is there a common encounter that is basically a death sentence in a game .theblackavenger  how much do you vlaue your time? Ammonia worlds are upwards of 30k credits plus the possible first discovery bonus.What's SSS?.way more than that .strong signal source.Strong Signal Source.Oh right..yea. my frustration is, flying around space, which is pretty empty by defnition right, the mechanics of doing so are tedious if everything you come across is content/events that dont accomplish anything.some are pretty easy, some are pretty hard and some are "WTF?!?".the ambush encounter can be amazing.the gold floating in space is lulzy.even the ambush comes in flavours.when it is just 2 anacondas and a vulture, you've been given the easy one.i had up to 8 vultures, all wanted and firing and up to 4 anacondas with only one wanted and firing.kolie - Yeah; I know what you mean. That flaw kinda permeates the entire E:D experience at the moment because there's no story or readily apparent lore to pull it all together. It's the game equivalent of a story that's just a BOSH..i have seen 4 FDLs and 4 Vultures. .it is almost too much like real life. you wake up in the morning and go to work with the hope that you find something fun  to do at night or on the weekends :).hihi, thats funny. from 0 to 15% in the persephone CG ;-).with only 4 mil in bounty.whats a cg.community goal.i'm in top 5% in the auta one with only 4.7m .fed average is below 1m.how do I find out about community goals?.forum has a sticky thread about them.oh coal.easiest way is to search google for "active community goals".cool*.Nonoo, CG is Center of Gravity, and you're all off balance! GET ON THE BALL! *queue infomercial music*.you often can find out sooner in game.the forums, those are the forums.frontier.co.uk ones?.yes.Haven't been there yet..https://forums.frontier.co.uk/showthread.php?t=113495 .that one.:( No one got my reference.. or didn't think it was funny. *pout*.have no idea what you are referring to.those yoga balls?.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NjCCM5Djf1U.does this only apply to uhh... onlne mode?.center of gravity is CoG as anyone knows ;.-) .nope .Loetmichel - I've mostly seen and heard it referenced as CG actually?.it is a shared universe. open/solo/groups all play in the same one .yea I get that, just was asking for leaderboard purposes..not saying that is a good idea, but that is the way it is. everything is shared. .solo is by far the most efficient way to participate but not a lot of fun .CoG.there is already a CG in elite.i forgot the {sarcasm} tag ;) .Damnit dude, you can't do that to a guy on the internet!.Internet sarcasm doesn't work!.right now i think that combat zones are really broken in open.yea. I usually game wth a group of friends, but none of them have elite so I have no one to talk to or play with .that video... i cant help but laugh whenever i see american washing machines.RES can be ok because you can find ones with no one else there.but that is just like solo :).Loetmichel   XD .... do your shirts last longer than 5 cleanings in that torture device?.you can add me if you need anything in game. this is my handle..Loetmichel - I'm not american. I wouldn't know. What 
do yours look like?.maybe ill try trading today. Can I outfit a proper trade ship worth a spit in a bucket for just under 4m/.how many credits total do you have available? .type 6 looked cheap.3.95.i would do rare trading.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wPKtyXHMHpg .outfit a t6 for long distance travel and move rares from the lave cluster to fujin and back.that's... the same thing.there's a front loader in the video.starts at 1:29 .each rare will net 15-16k.Okay, not sure what the difference is? XD.Are we comparing front-loaders versus top-loaders?.no kneading pin in the middle.which kills the fabric.top loaders need it because gravity.but a top loader is not 'american'.and much less agressive detergents.it's just... a top loader lol.german top loaders still have a horizontal drum .top loaders are what most americans have....becuase a vertical drum is bullshit.XD.yeah, that's what I thought too .Honestly; never had an issue..Australia has both top and front loaders..maybe recently, but that is certainly not the historical norm.It's just up to personal preference..I think that top loaders possibly have more of an issue chewing things up, due to the 'spindle' in the middle.although even a front loader can chew some things up, I lost an xkcd shirt to that, I'd only worn it once too!.That was a nice walk in good, sunny weather.I think I overloaded the front loader, so the t-shirt in question got pushed towards the front and thus the edge of the drum, and managed to slip between it and the casing.they both seem to work really well. i've had both. not a problem in real life. .that just sounds like a bum machine design.if we're talking historically ... my family's first washing machine when I was <10 was top loader, but we had front loaders ever since, uh, early 80s ?.none of the front loaders i've seen and used really have that possibility.If anything; I prefer top-loaders because you can actually open the lid even while it's still operating..'bum machine' in response to me? .there's usually some sort of... gasket? i dunno what to call it, between the drum and the door opening.the thing in the middle though can be an issue .yea.if so, no, it was just me overloading it too much, HOW it slipped into the tiny gap I don't know, it tore trying to get the edge of it back out :/.and I lived in that house for almost 3 years with the same machine and that was the only incident.theblackavenger - I've never had an issue with it though? XD.yeah, i mean i have seen maybe it tear something once or twice in my ridiculously long life .if you want a good 5 star rated washing machine, you'll have to get a front loader ;) .and, yeah, there was a rubber seal/gasket thing, but inevitably a small gap (else the drum would always be rubbing on it and wear it down anyway) .my personal recommendation for a washing machine is Miele (Meile? no, Miele) ... /quiet/ as hell and does an excellent job.SparkyRailgun - BUT WHAT DOES FIVE STAR MEAN? D:.not that we bought it ... Katy talked the previous owners into leaving all the 'white goods' as part of the price.i dunno, still sounds like a shit design Athan lol.this thing when on full spin is way quieter than most machines just sloshing things around.at no point should an article of clothing ever be able to leave the drum.in the normal lifespan of them achine.i'm still trying to decide if i like my very quiet dishwashers.as I keep saying, this was DEFINITELY me overloading it on that use, and otherwise the machine was fine.i can't count how many times i have opened one that was on.yes.even overloaded.there's silent dishwashers now? damn.thats a german "top loader": https://youtu.be/tKhC_V6h72I?t=1788.Clearly you're all doing it wrong... .quick calc says I did something like 280 washes in the machine, only had an issue once, so I'm more inclined to blame myself.MDF/Chipboard/crap should be banned ¬.¬ .YOu should put clothes into ducted-black-hole-spin-cycles to ensure a perfect clean!.There is no top or front.. IT'S ALL AROUND!.it's functionally identical to a front loader .yes.thats the point.the point of a 
top loader is that it can be opened during operation.Which I have done! :D.It's fun! ^^.yeah, all the time.when the cycle just started and you missed a sock or something.unlike a front loader which will be like LOL NOPE.Yus! :D.XD.the point of a top loaderwith vertical drum is that its crap for washing because it has to rely on the pin in the middle to knead the clothes .Do those things ever spring leaks?.and you have to wait until the next load or waste water draining it.I was under the impression the seals wear out..which is mechanickal stress AND needs more agressive detergents.a modern front loader should refuse to start the cycle if it doesn't have a seal.What's mechanical stress?.that's a downside, sure .most detergents are pretty much the same.As in what mechanical stress?.but that doesn't make it worthless.sodium laurel or sodium laureth sulfate.you can open a german front loader at any time, the water level is usually BELOW the door rim .How do you know what is rare, where to pick them up, and who is selling them?.so you can open it while it's spinning huh.that seems dangerous.mechanical stress to the clothes... -> they detoirate fast .try this route, it worked wonders for me http://zebratrades.net/elite/Rares-Circuit-1.jpg .you have to press "stop" first .so you can't open it while it's in operation.got it.because the door is locked.I thought we were past this part already? We were talking about being able to open it during operation. XD.but it will coninue the washing cycle after closing it again and pressing "start".it will not start again.thats "opening it in cycle" in my opinion.Mine doesn't stop when I lift the lid?.THAT i call dangerous ;-).Not unless it's in the spin cycle, for safety reasons.But that's not when I care to open it..I asked earlier but not sure if it was answered, can u track your scans done while out in space or u wont know how many youve done until u turn them in?.Also btw; my top loader doesn't just spin around and around to wash.the worst that'll happen with an open top loader in the spin cycle is maybe a bit of water gets out.27ly hmm thats a far one.but since most don't seal the lid, even that is unlikely.it does a gentle back and forth.. soo... your mechanical stress argument is invalid. ;).i used to watch ours as a kid.and drop shit into it, but don't tell my mum.some scientific research says otherwise .i've kept that a secret.How do you do the 42ly legs?.i wonder if you could turn off FA in supercruise, and use a planets gravity to boost you to another planet."american" style top loaders kill thsirts in less than 10 wahsing cycles.but im sure SC doesnt work that way.so how is it that i have t shirts that survived years of being washed with a top loader?."german" style top or front loaders need more than 100 cleanings for the same wear on the fabric.Less than 10? o_O.wat.What the hell kind of bloody research were you guys doing?.oh sorry, you would need a fuel scoop, the highest FSD you can get for your ship, and get class D everything else to increase your range .I've had shirts go through more htan 50 loads and still fine..this sounds like the sort of 'research' a company with a product does to 'prove' theirs is better.class d on type 6. I have the highest FSD, it says unladen 26ly, laden 22 ly, current 26.93.thats not 46 something.that may be, the resear4ch was from Bosch ;-) .yeeeeaaaaah.thats a good one.SparkyRailgun - lol agreed..What'd they do, turn the "American" washing machine up to 11 and engage hyperdrive? XD.9 out of ten statisticians agree that that research is bogus.no idea ;-).the shirts were made of toilet paper.1-ply.wow multiple terraforms.put in all D components besides FSD. also, you may not need the size they have available. .but i don't think it will be 46.i think that is the anaconda range.T6 max is a little of 30.*over.http://edshipyard.com/#/L=60W,,2-5K6u6Q3m5K3m6k,08c08c0720727Q403w03w .add fuel scoop to that if needed..it has no mass so you will have the same range.if you are rare trading, anything above 80t of cargo is likely over kill.now with fuel 
scoop: http://edshipyard.com/#/L=60W,,2-5K6u6Q3m5K3m6k,50y08c0720727Q403w03w.not till you turn them in. though you can count them on your statistics. .ok all ftted up.doh, I closed my tabs before vacation. Can anyone link me that nice trading tool website that has the white background and drop down boxes?.eddb.io ?.cheers, thanks.that's the one.im in kakas, whats the easiest way to see the closest rare circuit stop.just go to diso.kk omw.50 rares per visit till middle of june.nothing like it in the galaxy.after you pick them up you will need to decide if you want to pick up the rest of them in the area.you can probably add 20 wandering around there but beware pirates.then you will want to go 140-160ly away to sell them. fujin has a rare neighborhood but honestly the efficiency in just grabbing the diso rares and dropping them off and returning is pretty high even if you dead head back..elitetradingtool.co.uk will show you where all the rares are relative to a system.cool thx.453 system vists so far.518 since 23rd of may.does it reset when you turn them in?.no.ok.6359 systems in total since I've started playing the game.got a hankering to play some LoL but i cant stop system jumping.. hit a stretch where tehre isnt anyone exploring it seems.no, you need to keep track .I'm using eddiscovery2.you need to modify the appconf.xml file to enable debuging, once you do that e:d records trhe systems you jump to in text log files, eddiscovery reads the log files.hm ok.GenarHofoen is writing a better tool that does the same.but he's a slacker and hasnt finished it yet :) .for those of you that changed your viewport to 75, do you like it?.fov?.theblackavenger yes I love it and id never go back.Before I hated the game because I felt like Iw as smashed in and could never see anything, now I feel like I have 'screenspace' total placebo but it makes a huge difference for me.Primal - Nah it's not a placebo at all..It's almost like the difference between an orthographic drawing and a perspective one. Sure, the orthographic might technically be more accurate, but it doesn't LOOK right..What the hell is Summerland and why can't I go there without a permit?.thanks for the tips, omw to diso now.Arms production..Meaning you can find absolutely no good modules there. :P.going to need more cargo space!.any of you guys uses INARA?.whats that?.http://inara.cz.Elite Dangerous Companion Tool.nope but thanks for the info :D.;).ugh ive hit a point where I cant go any further... I dont have a 39 jy and seem to be locked in.gonna have to back track some :(.not sure many people do have 39 ly jump ranges .I really need to stop going to the wrong damn station.Psieonic> It's an Empire world that needs a permit.*system.there are lots of them.greebo_Brat  - yea it was an oddity, ive already recharted around that dead end.chrsti i really wish game designers would stop making stupid idiotic little decisions based on "it's for game play" argument.Primal, heh, it can be a pain in sparse areas..Hi all.is this right what I read on steam?.No, it's all wrong and false advertising.Just kidding, what exactly?.haha.yes, elite dangerous really is being ported to run on windows.Theres a post saying that the xbox version is going to get planetary landings before the pc one?.just wondered if its true..it hasn't been anounced either way.pretty sure that's all unconfirmed rumor crap.ok thanks.but I have no idea.LOL.OH MAAAAAN THAT WAS HILARIOUS.So two Vultures were in a wing at Lombardelli's trying to ram kill people..what station in Diso has the rares?.its been said that the xbone gets a feature before PC does, but it hasn't been said what it is.Decided I'd play their game and started kiting them around. .They both tried to start charging me at the same time, so I boosted back at them..One had already tried ramming me hard and lost his shield and went down to 45% hull.This time it only knocked their shields offline, but then they both armed weapons and tried to shoot me down after the ram.. they hit the station and got shot down. XD.link us to this post please .RBlunderbuss, 
its shifnalport iirc.give me 2 mins, having probs with steam atm  ..nothing unusual there lol.thanks.tfw lost power while docking.Athan, I think this one: http://steamcommunity.com/app/359320/discussions/0/613958868371960710/.yeah, so that doesn't itself have a citation ...."my brother's girlfriend's best friend's mother's cousin twice removed said...".they're either repeating misinformation they've heard or are the source troll.so just like most of stuff on steam's discussion boards.heck, is the Xbox version even going to be able to have a beta version running?.if not that's reason enough to have Mac/PC always have/test things first.anyone else have a problem with steam atm?  the forums simply wont load..It took a little to load when I started looking for that thread, but it calmed down a bit.I'm sure that wouldn't be a problem .installed TCE. pretty interesting..trying to figure out how to install it. unfortunately i don't have the files they refer to in the instructions. .that is the main empire world .gorram bh! .with a vulture? .if i was going to go ramming people i don't think i would use a vulture.any idea how high the favor for the family cg 5% will finish? .it will be sketchy at this point but i will check.have to dock first.<- 5.522 mil in, still 15%.tier2, 4 mil for 5%, 2 mil for 15%, 4,554,670,995 credits earend.2958 contributors.what do you think the total is? 20B?.no idea.my estimate for top 5% right now is 6,558,288.Hmm, what CG is this?.persephone bounty hunting.if the end is 20B, probably 12m+ for top 5%.maybe higher.but still too early to tell.http://www.cyrom.org/palbum/main.php?g2_itemId=15816  <- does that help?.sigh i thought I backtracked out of this stuck position but I am going in circles.is there an easy way to map out of a stuck exploration point?.shed a bit of fuel and try again to map out .this TCE thing will log all your systems.oh, i am in the CG. it is just hard to estimate it sometimes .PING! .Psieonic (and everyone else) : I've created icons for the star types, what do you reckon? : http://i.imgur.com/gDU7pqm.jpg.Idea being, click on star type, icon appears above the line with a count.Two black holes in system? click on the BH icon twice.pfft, it should automatically log all objects! .;) .Serious callers only.oh feck, two WDs 51k away .I'll put you on ignore if you continue to be flippant.hey :\ .I gave feed back when you first asked did I not? .I'm needing critical and serious input/feedback TBH.I continued to give thoughts and feedback continouly have I not? .Yeah listen - lol - I've been sitting here for 2 hours using GIMP producing icons.My sense of humour has taken a dive.NS is a bit hard to read.Oooh dey good GenarHofoen! :D.is it really necessary for the graduated curve to make them look like balls?.Pretty much exactly as I imagined them GenarHofoen. XD.Yeah there's not much I can do about the NS text, I tried lots of different colours. I may have to completely change the NS icon.also, what about icons (or drop down modifier) on those stars that can also be giants? .no I mean just use flat background colour, GenarHofoen .stars arent a smooth ball anyway .theblackavenger - Persephone? I have no idea. But yes; two Vultrues tried to ram a Cobra that was loaded with Hull Reinforcements. They lost..Vultures*.are you going to put search filters in? search filter on notes and system name would be nice.and bodies, foc.ofc.I don't know how I'd represent one normal and one giant of the same class .drop down menu allowing you to select the modifier.I wonder if disconnecting/reconnecting is faster than launching from a station.Not going to happen.you dont like context menus? .No, I'm going to just put a count in the star type when clicked, and you can make a note .opuch.did NOT want to do that.zoomed past a NS at 4c.no damage but felt the ship's course be dragged off.Also, I think I'm going to change that "Bodies" column. I may just use it to show Earthlikes where found.I'd make it star type column.Actually I have a better idea. I'm going to completely remove the Bodies column and just have 
Date, Time, System Name, and Notes.personally I'd prefer a star type column .Because the Stars and Planets will update in real time when you move up and down the jump table.but thats just me .Thing is, I'm running out of room - however... I can adjust the column sizes a bit better..I can understand your reason.I'll keep the bodies column in for the time being.GenarHofoen - How are you going to be filling the Stars area? .The same colour icon will appear above the selector icons, and a number will either be inside, or above, or below that icon, depending on what looks bettter .I wish we could bookmark favorite systems/routes.Below will probably look good..kolie - I wish you could set detours/multi-stop routes..yea def.like in eve.:).Hell, like in Freelancer..never played freelance.routine, jump into system, align with HS vector or refuel and align with HS vector, check local system for interesting planets, check next system for WD/NS/BH, jump.GenarHofoen - I like the font you chose for the star type icons. ^^.i'm trading because i like this TCE tool.might have to go get my t9.tce?.trade computer extension.what is it.adds a tool to the game that it should include in the first place.tracks all the commodity prices that you see.GenarHofoen - I'd personally wanna put "Add New" or like a + symbol or something somewhere on that bottom row though at least to clearly mark them as something you're meant to interact with..whoa, where to get it?.it is painful to install.search on google.thats fne.i work in IT i am sure its easy to install lol.im the guy who makes the hard to install software im good :).i've been a software developer for 20+ years. it is a pain :).it is bad enough that another person wrote a forum post on how to install it for the guy that made it.So?.GIVE IT!.https://forums.frontier.co.uk/showthread.php?t=119873.:P.it also logs all the places you visit and stuff like that.you were flying a Clipper, i'm afraid i don't recall the rank .oh hmm. a lot of the places are outposts. maybe i will stick to the python..Wait, you have to manually type in a station's trade data for it?.I.... I don't feel like playing Elite: Spreadsheet Edition. :X.Elite: Data Entry the Game.man, if this INARA thing linked with the game that'd be pretty cool.OCR...  oh wow.you just have to bring up the commodity page and click a button to grab all the ones on the screen .Yeah I just saw that part..That's kinda hardcore. XD.should be built into the game.It really should..maybe you get a merged result as well when you are in a wing.but can't copy their data.so TCE you have to type in the data manually anyways?.i play in windowed mode so i can type it all into a spreadsheet if i wanted to.you use OCR.it just does a lot of things automatically.oh nvm i didnt read up a bit.for some reason i find this to be more fun than elitetradingtool.mostly because i can get my own up to date data i guess

