Dapper Drake will be the next release of Ubuntu due June 1 . Join channel  for discussion  .Oracle and Linux  how about Ubuntu.gnomefreak, I ve been doing as you said for the last 4 hours....is oracle buying ubuntu?.hehe, ok guys, I joined , thanks anyway .new rumors .you could run nautilus with gksudo if you want .. but that s just asking for trouble..Falstius, why?.is it not recommended due to security reasons or due to possiblely causing system problems? .thanks..Nah, I hear they re looking at Novell though.  I don t think the philosophies would be compatible, since Ubuntu is strictly noncommercial in offering nature. .a) security, b) people  stuff up. .well for once thing nautilus leaves dirty little files all over the place which would then be owned by root. .hi all, can someone briefly explain to me what the difference between debian and ubuntu is? Is it (basically) debian with a different release schedule maintained by different people?.upgrading will only ask you about ssh if its already installed .Therefore, I m going to give that distro a try.HELLO.who can help me???please.it s just so stupid to not do a good deal because of philosophy (of a commerce).plus, you d likely end up running lots of programs as root that shouldn t be run as root..I am encouragd by such a friendly support and communit.Alex_BO2, what do you want.cus if i was just a security issue i dont really see the problem considering linux boxes arent targeted....but if its easy to mess up ur linux system as well then ok i wont risk it .gnomefreak, sure ssh is installed...._jason, i just did all that again but I still get a blue screen instead of video... and the sound works fine again.Oracle just wants to add the OS, so Ubuntu Linux would make a lot more sense than Novell,  said Richard Monson Haefel, a senior analyst with Burton Group, a Midvale, Utah, consulting firm..Ooh...there s a page on the ubuntu site about that.  Look for  relationship  on some general about page. .naxxtor, i have to patch my acpi and i don t know how to do.blue screen. why didn t you say so?  have you restarted X? .hmmmmm we shall see what happens .than your gonna have to answer the questions like you did the first time you installed it .thanks for help and bye.google summer of code goes on this summer again too..Alex_BO2, what patch are you talking about?.ok, will do, thanks .next year will be a KEY YEAR For linux and mainstream.especially ubuntu.JoeMorris, Blender really benefited from that.err... make menuconfig ... command not found. using default installation, haven t touched anything..naxxtor, acpi release 20060127 2.6.16._jason, I have not restarted X... I will do so right now.no make installed?.If you know the risk you re taking, you probably know enough to do it, but then would know why not too.  If you don t know and understand the risks, you shouldn t be doing it.  So, pretty much either way, probably best to steer away from, unless it s just too much of a hassle to use sudo. .Alex_BO2, do you have kernel sources?.i like ubuntu so far, but still seems to involve alot of command typing considering it has a full working GUI .isw, no compiler installed ....sudo apt get install build essential .Depends what you re doing. .gnomefreak, the main differences are the ForwardAgent and ForwardX11 answers ( no  for Breezy vs.  yes  for Hoary)....naxxtor, where can i find them?.well that s just great... I.brb.i dont use ssh .Im trying to get my wifi usb to work .Alex_BO2, you can apt get them I believe   i forget the command though.isw, sudo apt get install build essential.ok i wont go down that road  .(And often cli is the quickest way to do something, so documentation will use it, simply because it works.) .run the command i typed to you .hey guys, ive just downloaded and burned ubuntu iso, it hangs when the brown background shows   works fine on another computer.Hehe, all right. .I would... if i would have access to internet from the laptop im installing it on, ibm thinkpad 240x, no ethernet available..gnomefreak, is there something you can use instead of ssh (apart from the deprecated rsh and telnet, of course)? What a surprise.I downloaded the kernel on a usb memory stick and transferred it..ive in a magazine about BASH command line , whats the difference between that and the terminal ? .i can use anything they offer i have no need for it . b e.Alex_BO2, have you made sure there isn t a package that will do that patch for you?.Not much.  You can use things other than bash, but that s the default shell for terminal use. .info build essential.build essential (informational list of build essential packages), section devel, is optional. Version 11.1 (breezy), Packaged size 6 kB, Installed size 48 kB.naxxtor, yes... probably i have them, let me see.omg tony sorry, what im typing doesnt seem to be what im thinking , typings terrible (works my brain up) .you can use the cd as long as the cdrom repo is enabled and others disabled .isw, it might be available on the CD._jason, it works now, thanks. Still weird though since I did all this yesterday already and have rebooted since then. I guess I missed something yesterday.doesn t have a usb drive... and it can t boot from usb. I had to get a 2.5  hdd converter to 3.  whatever converter to my desktop computer...installed the base system and put the hdd back to the laptop. That worked fine.  .yeah, that blue screen happened to me once and I never figured out why.  I just know it went away with a restart .anyone know why my ubunto livecd wont start? it hangs when the brown desktop background shows, works fine on my other computer.what the command to install wine.patrick52222, sudo apt get install wine.?.sudo aptitude install wine .cheers all.ohwell, I used linux back in 97... I abandoned it a few years laters...guess I have to go back to the nerd mode again  .hope u dont mind me asking all these questions, i wud just like to understand ubuntu a bit more before i use it more .tell patrick52222 about wine.Well that s why we re here, so no problem. .right, so ubuntu is a more up to date freeze of debian testing, in a way... .afk.What software is the ubuntu wiki based on?.bless .Kind of. .There are some other philosophy type things, but they are very closely related. .does anyone have any ideas how i can stop my network admin applet from freezing when I open it?  I think it s trying to load a connection that isn t there.....ok, channel is not for recommendation, they aren t exactly helpful  (.how do i uninstall ubuntu and install windows again?.try flushing the app then re installing? .Oh dear   why? .put a windows install disk in and delete all the ubuntu partitions .naxxtor, which package would that be?.you will need your Windows disc.... .but... why? .and good luck to you  .i ve tryed to get used to ubuntu but it s not ready yet for home users.WIndoze eats everything in its path, just run the install CD .traitor  .in what way? .ipod, for example, the gtkpod is not what i expected.at least tell us what put you off so we know what to improve  .Do you want to ask your question on Ubuntu offtopic? .did you try amarok?  former iTunes users tend to like that better. .yeh....i tryied amarok but wasn t that easy.how so? .what s a good wireless G card to get for an ubuntu laptop?.i almost gave up with ubuntu when i found out its not gonna work with my usb adsl modem, but im just gonna get a really cheap network card and switch to solve this problem, as i really feel ubuntu deserves a second chance .and for no reason, when i switched my connection from wireless to ethernet i wasn t able to login again as sudo and had to reinstall ubuntu.Any using enlightment with entrance ?.i created a different user after installing ubuntu, how can i make that user a sudoer too?  i get is not in the sudoers file. This incident will be reported..I have an Intel Pro Wireless 2915 , works out of hte box. .Anything with an atheros chipset works well (man Dlink cards have this) .Ah ok, to embrace the open source world, you have to understand that closed source stuff like ipods will have  issues . Now you could have gone for the far superior iAudio. But that isn t what you want to hear if you already have an iPod. 
